docs(ai-agents): promote skill docs as recommended introspection pattern (#81548)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/ai-agents/interfaces/sdk/execute.md

LangChain wraps each callable as a `StructuredTool`:

```python title="agent.py"
from langchain_core.tools import StructuredTool
from airbyte_agent_sdk import build_connector_tools, connect

github = connect("github")
tools = build_connector_tools(github, framework="langchain")

lc_tools = [
    StructuredTool.from_function(coroutine=tool, name=tool.__name__, description=tool.__doc__)
    for tool in tools.as_list()
]
```

:::note
LangChain 1.x re-raises tool errors by default, so a wrong `read_skill_docs` section guess aborts the run before the agent can self-correct from the returned outline. To let the agent recover, add the `wrap_tool_call` middleware shown in [Surface tool errors back to the model](../../get-started/developer-quickstart/tutorial-langchain#surface-tool-errors-back-to-the-model) in the LangChain quickstart.
:::

FastMCP registers each callable as a tool:

```python title="server.py"
from fastmcp import FastMCP
from airbyte_agent_sdk import build_connector_tools, connect

mcp = FastMCP("github-tools")
github = connect("github")

for tool in build_connector_tools(github, framework="mcp").as_list():
    mcp.tool(tool)
```

### Alternatives

> The decorator patterns below predate `build_connector_tools`. They bind a single `execute` tool with the connector's full catalog baked into the description up front, rather than letting the agent read skill docs on demand. Prefer `build_connector_tools` for new agents. Reach for these when you want to expose a narrow set of operations, need full control over the tool description, or run a local connector without hosted skill docs.

Author: Do we host the skills? What happens if you're in open source mode?

```text
inspect_connector() -> read_skill_docs() -> read_skill_docs(section="...") -> execute(entity, action, params)
```

- `inspect_connector()` returns the connector's hosted metadata and Context Store readiness, and resolves the skill-doc ID the other tools use.
- `read_skill_docs()` with no section returns the outline and general guidance. `read_skill_docs(section="<id>")` returns the exact entity and action guidance the agent needs before it executes.
- `execute(entity, action, params)` runs the operation.

The SDK binds the skill-doc ID internally, so the model only passes an optional `section`. This keeps the agent's context small: it reads the outline, drills into the one section it needs, then executes, instead of loading every entity and action up front. Skill docs are served by Airbyte from the same connector definition the SDK is generated from, so they stay in sync with the connector.

`connect("github")` returns a typed connector when a generated submodule exists, but `build_connector_tools` also accepts a generic `HostedExecutor` for YAML-only connectors. Either works with the same three tools.

:::note

> Skill docs are hosted by Airbyte and served by the platform. If you point the SDK at a local or offline connector (no hosted backend), `build_connector_tools` still returns the same three tools, but `inspect_connector` reports `"mode": "local"` and `read_skill_docs` falls back to the connector's generated (YAML-derived) description instead of hosted section docs. `execute` still runs directly against the connector.

Author: ```suggestion
Skill docs are hosted by Airbyte and served by the platform. If you point the SDK at a connected running in open source mode (no hosted backend), `build_connector_tools` still returns the same three tools, but `inspect_connector` reports `"mode": "local"` and `read_skill_docs` falls back to the connector's generated (YAML-derived) description instead of hosted section docs. `execute` still runs directly against the connector.
```

:::

To expose only `execute` with a single generated description instead of the progressive flow, pass `use_progressive_docs=False`. `tools.as_list()` then returns just the `execute` tool.

> #### Other frameworks

Author: It's my strong preference that, rather than having an "Other frameworks" section, we use a tabbed interface with the different frameworks. We should also add OpenAI's framework since we use that in the docs.
